The Project Gutenberg eBook of History of the Cape Mounted Rifles with a
Brief Account of the Colony of the Cape of Good Hope, by Richard Cannon

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: History of the Cape Mounted Rifles with a Brief Account of the
       Colony of the Cape of Good Hope

Author: Richard Cannon

Release Date: November 30, 2021 [eBook #66858]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Brian Coe, John Campbell and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The Internet
             Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HISTORY OF THE CAPE MOUNTED RIFLES
WITH A BRIEF ACCOUNT OF THE COLONY OF THE CAPE OF GOOD HOPE ***




  TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE

  Italic text is denoted by _underscores_.

  Footnote anchors are denoted by [number], and the footnotes have been
  placed at the end of the book.

  A superscript is denoted by ^x or ^{xx}, for example S^t or Esq^{re}.

  Some minor changes to the text are noted at the end of the book.




[Illustration:

  BY COMMAND OF His late Majesty WILLIAM THE IV^{TH}.
  _and under the Patronage of_
  Her Majesty the Queen.

  HISTORICAL RECORDS,
  _OF THE_
  British Army

  _Comprising the_
  _History of every Regiment_
  _IN HER MAJESTY’S SERVICE_.

  _By Richard Cannon Esq^{re}._

  _Adjutant-General’s Office, Horse Guards._
  London.
  _Printed by Authority._
  1837]




  HISTORICAL RECORDS

  OF

  THE BRITISH ARMY.




GENERAL ORDERS.


      _HORSE-GUARDS_,
      _1st January, 1836_.

His Majesty has been pleased to command, that, with a view of doing
the fullest justice to Regiments, as well as to Individuals who
have distinguished themselves by their Bravery in Action with the
Enemy, an Account of the Services of every Regiment in the British
Army shall be published under the superintendence and direction
of the Adjutant-General; and that this Account shall contain the
following particulars, viz.,

  ---- The Period and Circumstances of the Original Formation of
  the Regiment; The Stations at which it has been from time to time
  employed; The Battles, Sieges, and other Military Operations, in
  which it has been engaged, particularly specifying any Achievement
  it may have performed, and the Colours, Trophies, &c., it may have
  captured from the Enemy.

  ---- The Names of the Officers and the number of Non-Commissioned
  Officers and Privates, Killed or Wounded by the Enemy, specifying
  the Place and Date of the Action.

  ---- The Names of those Officers, who, in consideration of their
  Gallant Services and Meritorious Conduct in Engagements with the
  Enemy, have been distinguished with Titles, Medals, or other Marks
  of His Majesty’s gracious favour.

  ---- The Names of all such Officers, Non-Commissioned Officers and
  Privates as may have specially signalized themselves in Action.

  And,

  ---- The Badges and Devices which the Regiment may have been
  permitted to bear, and the Causes on account of which such Badges
  or Devices, or any other Marks of Distinction, have been granted.

      By Command of the Right Honourable
      GENERAL LORD HILL,
      _Commanding-in-Chief_.

  JOHN MACDONALD,
  _Adjutant-General_.




PREFACE.


The character and credit of the British Army must chiefly depend
upon the zeal and ardour, by which all who enter into its service
are animated, and consequently it is of the highest importance that
any measure calculated to excite the spirit of emulation, by which
alone great and gallant actions are achieved, should be adopted.

Nothing can more fully tend to the accomplishment of this desirable
object, than a full display of the noble deeds with which the
Military History of our country abounds. To hold forth these bright
examples to the imitation of the youthful soldier, and thus to
incite him to emulate the meritorious conduct of those who have
preceded him in their honourable career, are among the motives that
have given rise to the present publication.

The operations of the British Troops are, indeed, announced in the
“London Gazette,” from whence they are transferred into the public
prints: the achievements of our armies are thus made known at the
time of their occurrence, and receive the tribute of praise and
admiration to which they are entitled. On extraordinary occasions,
the Houses of Parliament have been in the habit of conferring on
the Commanders, and the Officers and Troops acting under their
orders, expressions of approbation and of thanks for their skill
and bravery, and these testimonials, confirmed by the high honour
of their Sovereign’s Approbation, constitute the reward which the
soldier most highly prizes.

It has not, however, until late years, been the practice (which
appears to have long prevailed in some of the Continental armies)
for British Regiments to keep regular records of their services
and achievements. Hence some difficulty has been experienced in
obtaining, particularly from the old Regiments, an authentic
account of their origin and subsequent services.

This defect will now be remedied, in consequence of His Majesty
having been pleased to command, that every Regiment shall in future
keep a full and ample record of its services at home and abroad.

From the materials thus collected, the country will henceforth
derive information as to the difficulties and privations which
chequer the career of those who embrace the military profession. In
Great Britain, where so large a number of persons are devoted to
the active concerns of agriculture, manufactures, and commerce, and
where these pursuits have, for so long a period, been undisturbed
by the _presence of war_, which few other countries have escaped,
comparatively little is known of the vicissitudes of active
service, and of the casualties of climate, to which, even during
peace, the British Troops are exposed in every part of the globe,
with little or no interval of repose.

In their tranquil enjoyment of the blessings which the country
derives from the industry and the enterprise of the agriculturist
and the trader, its happy inhabitants may be supposed not often to
reflect on the perilous duties of the soldier and the sailor,--on
their sufferings,--and on the sacrifice of valuable life, by which
so many national benefits are obtained and preserved.

The conduct of the British Troops, their valour, and endurance,
have shone conspicuously under great and trying difficulties; and
their character has been established in Continental warfare by the
irresistible spirit with which they have effected debarkations in
spite of the most formidable opposition, and by the gallantry and
steadiness with which they have maintained their advantages against
superior numbers.

In the official Reports made by the respective Commanders, ample
justice has generally been done to the gallant exertions of the
Corps employed; but the details of their services, and of acts of
individual bravery, can only be fully given in the Annals of the
various Regiments.

These Records are now preparing for publication, under His
Majesty’s special authority, by Mr. RICHARD CANNON, Principal Clerk
of the Adjutant-General’s Office; and while the perusal of them
cannot fail to be useful and interesting to military men of every
rank, it is considered that they will also afford entertainment and
information to the general reader, particularly to those who may
have served in the Army, or who have relatives in the Service.

There exists in the breasts of most of those who have served,
or are serving, in the Army, an _Esprit du Corps_--an attachment
to every thing belonging to their Regiment; to such persons a
narrative of the services of their own Corps cannot fail to prove
interesting. Authentic accounts of the actions of the great,--the
valiant,--the loyal, have always been of paramount interest with
a brave and civilized people. Great Britain has produced a race
of heroes who, in moments of danger and terror, have stood, “firm
as the rocks of their native shore;” and when half the World has
been arrayed against them, they have fought the battles of their
Country with unshaken fortitude. It is presumed that a record of
achievements in war,--victories so complete and surprising, gained
by our countrymen,--our brothers,--our fellow-citizens in arms,--a
record which revives the memory of the brave, and brings their
gallant deeds before us, will certainly prove acceptable to the
public.

Biographical memoirs of the Colonels and other distinguished
Officers, will be introduced in the Records of their respective
Regiments, and the Honorary Distinctions which have, from time to
time, been conferred upon each Regiment, as testifying the value
and importance of its services, will be faithfully set forth.

As a convenient mode of Publication, the Record of each Regiment
will be printed in a distinct number, so that when the whole shall
be completed, the Parts may be bound up in numerical succession.




  HISTORY

  OF

  THE CAPE MOUNTED RIFLEMEN;

  WITH A

  BRIEF ACCOUNT

  OF THE

  COLONY

  OF THE CAPE OF GOOD HOPE.


  _ILLUSTRATED WITH DRAWINGS OF THE_

  STANDARDS

  AND THE

  COSTUME OF AN OFFICER OF THE CORPS.


  LONDON:
  JOHN W. PARKER, WEST STRAND.

  M.DCCC.XLII.


[Illustration: OFFICER OF THE CAPE MOUNTED RIFLEMEN.

1842.

_Madeley lith. 3 Wellington S^t Strand._]




  HISTORY

  OF THE

  CAPE MOUNTED RIFLEMEN;

  WITH A

  BRIEF ACCOUNT

  OF THE

  COLONY

  OF THE

  CAPE OF GOOD HOPE.


[Sidenote: 1490]

[Sidenote: 1497]

[Sidenote: 1498]

The spirit of enterprise which led intelligent Europeans to
penetrate to every part of the globe, and to procure the advantage
of the productions of every climate for the use of their own
country, has multiplied the commerce of the world, and added
numerous colonial possessions to the nations of Christendom. Among
the enterprising navigators of the fifteenth century, Bartholomew
Diaz, a Portuguese officer of sagacity and fortitude, prosecuted a
voyage of discovery until he arrived at the lofty promontory which
marks the southern extremity of Africa; being prevented by violent
tempests from proceeding farther, he called it _Stormy Cape_; but
his sovereign, entertaining the hope that this success would lead
to the discovery of the long-desired route to the East Indies,
called it _the Cape of Good Hope_. In 1497, Emanuel, king of
Portugal, inheriting the enterprising genius of his predecessors,
sent Vasco de Gama, a man of talent and noble birth, with three
vessels, to pursue the grand scheme of discovering a passage to
India by the Cape of Good Hope; and this officer, surmounting
the difficulties which had deterred his predecessors, doubled
that formidable promontory which had long been the boundary of
navigation, and European ships were seen, for the first time,
navigating the Indian sea, which forms the greatest event, next to
the discovery of America, in modern maritime history. The route
to Hindoostan was thus established; but this important event was
not immediately followed by the formation of a settlement at the
Cape of Good Hope. Admiral Rio d’Infanté landed there in 1498, and
fixing upon the mouth of a river for the site of a settlement,
recommended his countrymen to establish a colony there; his advice
was, however, not followed, and other Portuguese navigators
failed in some slight attempts which they made to colonize this
interesting part of Africa.

The Cape forms one of the great landmarks of the globe, separating
the Atlantic from the Indian Ocean, and dividing the voyage to
Hindoostan into two nearly equal portions; the ships of England
and Portugal called there, and the Dutch, in the infancy of their
Indian trade, fixed upon it as a station for their vessels to take
in water and fuel. The English had a custom, in their outward-bound
voyages, of burying letters in an iron box, in a place pointed out
by a large blue stone, to be taken to England by the first ship
calling at the Cape in its way home.

[Sidenote: 1620]

For more than a century the English, Dutch, and Portuguese
continued to refresh at the Cape without appropriating the soil;
but in the year 1620, in the reign of King James I., the commanders
of two fleets of English ships, bound for Surat and Bantam, took
a formal possession of the soil, for, and in the name of their
sovereign; this was, however, not followed by the formation of a
colony there by the English.

[Sidenote: 1651]

Van Riebeck, surgeon of a Dutch ship that made a short stay at
the Cape of Good Hope, represented the richness of the soil, the
mildness of the climate, the advantages which a colony at this
place would give his country over other nations whose ships would
be obliged to call there; and, above all, the barrier it would
afford to the Indian possessions of the United Provinces; these
representations induced the Dutch East India Company to form a
regular establishment at the Cape. Van Riebeck was furnished with
power to establish a colony, of which he was appointed governor,
and three ships, provided with all that was necessary, were placed
under his orders. On his arrival at the Cape of Good Hope, the
natives surrendered the Cape Peninsula by treaty, with the two bays
that are divided by the isthmus, and he erected a square fort,
also warehouses, and raised outworks and batteries. Encouragement
being given, numbers of settlers arrived from time to time, and,
by presents and promises, a larger tract of land was procured;
but when the natives saw the colonists building houses and
fortifications, cultivating land, and breeding cattle, a feeling
of jealousy was awakened, and the Hottentots commenced hostilities
for the purpose of expelling their visitors, which ended in the
extension of the settlements, the arrival of more troops and
colonists from Holland, and the reduction of the natives to a state
of dependence little better than slavery.

The Dutch East India Company endeavoured to limit the Cape to
the original design of a port for refreshing their ships, and
they threw obstacles in the way of its becoming a flourishing
settlement; they allowed no trade but what passed through the
hands of their own servants, and made it dependent on the
governor-general of Batavia, concluding that the settlers would
thus be made equally submissive to their orders from Europe, and
from the seat of their wealth and influence in the East. This
illiberal policy afforded little stimulation to industry; the
settlers became conspicuous for habits of indolence, and education
being neglected, the manners of the colonists degenerated towards
barbarism, united with a cruel propensity to tyrannise over the
Hottentots, whose lands they had seized, and from whom they exacted
labour without due compensation. A number of French Protestants
found an asylum at the Cape, where they introduced the cultivation
of the vine; but the colony did not flourish under the Dutch. The
natives, however, proved a patient and submissive race; they were
the best labourers and herdsmen in the colony, and many of them
proved valuable soldiers in the service of Holland.

[Sidenote: 1794]

[Sidenote: 1795]

The declining commerce of the Dutch, towards the close of the
eighteenth century, made the Cape a burden to them; little doubt
was entertained of their willingness to part with it for a small
compensation, and overtures would, probably, have been made
from England, but at that period the French Revolution, and its
destructive consequences, unsettled the affairs of Europe. The
favourable reception, which the doctrine of equality met with in
Holland, having disposed the Dutch to separate from the Allies,
with the result of the campaign of 1794 in Flanders, and other
causes, occasioned the United Provinces to be brought under the
dominion of France. The Prince of Orange fled to England, and
he furnished letters authorizing the British to take possession
of, and to hold, the colony of the Cape of Good Hope in his
name. Many of the colonists had, in the meantime, imbibed French
principles; they had become clamorous to declare themselves a free
and independent republic; and lists of worthy and influential
persons to be consigned to the guillotine, or banished from the
colony, for holding different views, were prepared; at the same
time the slaves, who were much more numerous than the whites,
were holding meetings to decide upon the fate of the free and
independent burghers when the period of their own emancipation
should arrive. At this important crisis the revolutionists were
suddenly disconcerted by the arrival of a British armament under
Admiral Sir G. K. Elphinstone, and Major-General James Craig, to
take possession of the colony. The governor refused to consign the
place to the protection of the British, and ordered the inhabitants
to leave Simon’s Town. The English were careful not to commit any
act of hostility against the Dutch; but it being believed that the
governor intended to set fire to Simon’s Town, Major-General Craig
landed on the 14th of July, 1795, with part of the Seventy-eighth
regiment and the Marines of the fleet, and took possession of the
place, to preserve it from destruction. Soon afterwards the burgher
militia and Hottentot soldiers, who occupied the hills, fired on
the British patroles, and hostilities were thus commenced. The
Dutch occupied a fortified position on the rocks of Muisenberg,
from whence they were driven, on the 7th of August, by the fire of
the English ships and the advance of the troops, and two battalions
of seamen; on this occasion the advance-guard of the Seventy-eighth
regiment drove the enemy from a rocky ridge with great gallantry.
The Dutch fell back to Wynberg, a tongue of land projecting from
the east side of Table mountain, and about eight miles from Cape
Town. On the 4th of September General Alured Clarke arrived with
reinforcements, and on the 14th of that month the British advanced
and drove the Dutch from their elevated post. Two days afterwards
the Dutch governor surrendered the colony to the British arms.

[Sidenote: 1796]

[Sidenote: 1797]

During the following seven years, the Cape of Good Hope remained
under the protection of the British Government; and from this
period the origin of the CAPE MOUNTED RIFLEMEN may be traced. The
Hottentot soldiers were not immediately taken into the British
service; but in the years 1796 and 1797, a number of Hottentots
presented themselves at the quarters of the light infantry brigade
under Major King, of the Eighty-fourth regiment, at the village
of Stellenbosch. They were, in the first instance, employed to
cook, and perform other menial offices for the soldiers; but
their numbers increasing, they were embodied into a corps under
Lieutenant John Campbell, of the Ninety-eighth Foot, with a
serjeant from the same regiment. Numerous volunteers arriving,
additional officers and non-commissioned officers were attached to
them, and they were stationed in Hout’s Bay, behind Table Mountain.

[Sidenote: 1798]

A rebellion breaking out on the frontiers of the colony, a
squadron of the Eighth Light Dragoons, the flank companies of the
regiment in garrison, and the Cape Corps, were detached, under
Brigadier-General Vandeleur, to suppress the insurrection, and were
employed in very arduous duties for some time. At this period, a
portion of the Cape Corps was mounted, and employed as orderlies at
head-quarters, as guides, and for the carrying of despatches; in
performing these duties, they were found very useful.

[Sidenote: 1799]

[Sidenote: 1800]

In 1799, the Cape Corps was again stationed at Hout’s Bay, with
detachments at Graaff Reinett and Algoa Bay; and, in 1800, this
body of men was formed into a regiment under Lieut.-Colonel King,
with Major Donald Campbell second in command; the head-quarters
were established at Groen Kloof, near Cape Town, under Major
Campbell, Lieut.-Colonel King not having joined.

[Sidenote: 1801]

In 1801, the Cape Regiment, except the mounted men, was sent to the
frontiers, where it was employed during the year 1802.

[Sidenote: 1802]

At the peace of Amiens, the Cape of Good Hope was restored to
the United Provinces, which had taken the name of the Batavian
Republic.

[Sidenote: 1803]

When the Dutch governor arrived, in the early part of 1803,
with an armament, to take possession, the Cape Regiment was at
head-quarters; it was left in the colony, and nearly every man was
retained in the Dutch service.

A few months of respite from war followed the Treaty of Amiens,
and, in 1803, the contest was renewed with a violence which, in
a few years, shook the basis of every state in Europe. During
the first three years of the war, the attention of the British
Government was directed to measures rendered necessary by the
threatened invasion of England by Buonaparte; but in the latter
months of 1805, an armament, consisting of about five thousand men,
under the orders of Major-General Sir David Baird[1], proceeded
to recapture the settlement of the Cape of Good Hope, with its
dependencies, then in possession of the Batavian Government, and
commanded by Lieut.-General Janssens.

[Sidenote: 1806]

After surmounting considerable difficulties, a landing was effected
at Lospard’s Bay, on the 6th of January, 1806; on the morning of
the 8th, the army moved in two brigades towards the road leading
to Cape Town, and attacked the enemy’s force, consisting of five
thousand men, and twenty-three pieces of cannon, advantageously
posted at Blaw Berg, or Blue Mountains: the Dutch stood the fire
of the invading army with firmness, and maintained their position
obstinately; but the charge of the British troops with bayonets
proved irresistible, and the enemy was forced to a precipitate
retreat.

A negotiation ensued between the two commanders, which was carried
on by Brigadier-General (now Lord) Beresford: and the colony was
finally surrendered on the 18th January.

In the articles of capitulation it was stipulated, that the
battalion of Hottentot Light Infantry should march to Simon’s
Town, with the other Batavian troops, after which they should be
allowed to return to their own country, or to engage in the British
Service, as they might feel inclined. A number of them tendering
their services, they were formed into a corps at Wynberg, under the
command of Lieut.-Colonel Graham, and stationed at that village;
a detachment of about fifty men was sent to Fort Frederick, Algoa
Bay.

[Sidenote: 1808]

At the period of the surrender of the colony to the British
Crown, this regiment consisted, in the first instance, of about
five hundred rank and file; and in 1808 it was augmented to eight
hundred. Many of the additional men were procured by native
captains, who received two shillings a day; others were procured
by recruiting officers, and by small levies on the missionary
institutions: a number of volunteers also joined at head-quarters.

At this period, one company was stationed at Graaff Reinett, and
another was sent to the frontiers of the colony.

[Sidenote: 1809]

[Sidenote: 1810]

In this and the following year (1809) a company traversed the
greater part of the colony, collecting various bodies of Kafirs[2],
and removing them beyond the boundary,--the Great Fish River; this
company was followed by others, and in June, 1810, five companies
were employed on the frontiers under Major Lyster.

[Sidenote: 1811]

[Sidenote: 1812]

The regiment embarked for Algoa Bay, in September, 1810, and was
employed, from December, 1811, until May, 1812, in removing the
Kafirs from the country between the Sunday’s and the Great Fish
Rivers. The command of the force employed on the frontier was
confided to Lieut.-Colonel Graham, and the command of the regiment
devolved on Major Lyster.

A detachment crossed the Sunday’s River on Christmas-day, 1811,
under Major Prentice, and encamped at Commando Kraal, from whence
parties were sent out to mark roads through the Addo Bush. This
work having been completed, the men of the regiment, and some
settlers, advanced in extended order to scour the bush. While
moving towards the top of the Addo, in a part known by the name of
the “Addo Pass,” a number of Kafirs, who had hidden themselves in
pits, jumped up and commenced throwing their assagais, or javelins,
at the troops, killing Field-Cornet Greyling, and wounding two
other farmers. The Cape Regiment instantly rushed into the bush,
and, after a sharp skirmish, drove the Kafirs from among the trees
into the flats or plains.

Landrost Stockenstrom having been murdered while engaged in a
parley with the Kafirs, relative to their removing from the
Zuurberg, Major Fraser marched with a detachment to execute the
orders which were to have been carried into effect by Stockenstrom.
On crossing the mountain from Cournay he took a bye-path, and thus
escaped a body of Kafirs who were lying in ambush to murder him and
his party; and coming upon his adversaries suddenly, he succeeded
in killing fifteen of their number; he also recovered the bodies of
Mr. Stockenstrom, two field-cornets, and nine farmers, and buried
them; and he ascertained that several Kafirs had been shot in the
struggle, when these gentlemen were murdered.

At this period the Chief T’Slambie occupied the Zuurberg with about
four thousand Kafirs.

In May the head-quarters were established at Graham’s Town, and,
in consequence of the hostile attitude of the Kafirs, the regiment
was distributed in small parties along the frontier, in two lines
of posts; the advanced line in detachments from Osterhuisen’s Post,
to Old Kafir Drift; the second, from Bruintjie’s Hoogte, to what
is now called Groen Fontein; in all, about twenty-two posts, the
head-quarters remaining at Graham’s Town.

Several posts in the rear line were subsequently abandoned, and
some of the posts in the front line were occupied by British
regiments, the Cape Regiment being found more efficient in
patrolling, scouring the bush, and dislodging parties of Kafirs
assembled within the colony.

[Sidenote: 1813]

[Sidenote: 1814]

[Sidenote: 1815]

These arduous duties were performed by the regiment in 1813,
1814, and 1815; in the last-mentioned year Major Lyster left the
frontier, and the command of the regiment devolved on Major Fraser.

In the year 1815 an extensive revolt took place among the colonists
on the frontier, and the Cape Regiment was conspicuously useful on
this occasion; its firm and soldierlike bearing checked the revolt;
it assisted in the capture of the insurgents; and a hundred men
under Major Fraser attended the execution of several convicted
delinquents.

After the suppression of this revolt, a detachment of the regiment
was selected to be attached to the Royal Artillery as drivers; and
in October, two hundred men marched into Kafirland, under Captain
Bogle, to recover property which had been stolen by the natives.

In the mean time the war had terminated in Europe, and the
sovereignty of the Cape of Good Hope was permanently confirmed to
Great Britain by the Congress at Vienna.

[Sidenote: 1816]

[Sidenote: 1817]

In March, 1816, the establishment of the Cape Regiment was fixed at
ten companies of three serjeants, two corporals, and fifty private
soldiers each; and a further reduction being made in the strength
of the British army, its numbers were reduced, in January, 1817, to
six companies, under a major commanding.

During this year, detachments of the regiment were employed
night and day in patrolling the Fish River Bush, and repelling
the incursions of the Kafirs. In March two lines of posts were
directed to be established along the frontier, and the first line,
commencing at Upper Kafir Drift and extending up the Fish River as
far as Roode Wall, was occupied by the Cape Regiment; at the same
time the following orders were issued for its guidance by authority
and direction of Lieutenant-General Lord Charles Henry Somerset,
then Governor of the Colony.

  “It is to be clearly understood that no provocation is to be
  given to the Kafirs in their own territory. No cattle belonging
  to any inhabitant or farmer, are, upon any account, to be
  permitted to stray or graze, over to the Kafir territory; neither
  is any Kafir to be molested when within his own boundary, nor is
  any soldier, or other person, permitted to cross the Great Fish
  River, except when tracing depredations, or in the pursuit of
  stolen property.

  “It will be a primary object to capture any Kafirs trespassing
  within the limits of the colony, and his Lordship anxiously hopes
  that this may be effected without bloodshed.

  “Should cattle be traced, the party tracing them will, if it
  consider itself strong enough, and if commanded by an officer,
  follow until it shall retake them.

  “In order to encourage the men employed upon this duty, his
  Lordship has directed a reward to be given to the party making
  a capture, of five rix-dollars for each Kafir, not wounded, and
  one rix-dollar for each head of cattle retaken, and for each head
  afterwards restored from a Kafir Kraal, in lieu of that which
  shall have been traced to it.

  “Any Kafir who is captured is to be well secured, and conducted
  from post to post to the Drostdy at Uitenhage.”

In the beginning of April three hundred men under Major Fraser
accompanied the Governor, Lord Charles Somerset, to Kafirland,
where his Lordship had an interview with the Chief Gaika, and
established friendly relations with that Chief; but the tribes of
T’Slambie, Eno, Botman, and Cobus Congo continued hostile to the
colony. The advantages resulting from the friendly relations thus
established, were followed by the reduction of the regiment to two
hundred men, under Major Fraser, who assumed the command of the
frontier in October of that year. The hostile clans continuing to
make depredations, patroles were out night and day, and on the 10th
of October three men of the Cape Regiment, the signal men at Waay
Plaats, who were returning from the Cowie Bush, were waylaid and
murdered by the Kafirs in a manner which evinced a most barbarous
and cruel disposition.

[Sidenote: 1818]

On the 8th of January, 1818, Major Fraser entered Kafirland with
an armed force, and sixty men of the Cape Regiment recovered
twenty-one horses and two thousand head of cattle from the tribe of
T’Slambie.

The Kafirs were not intimidated, but continued their depredations,
committing numerous wanton murders, and the Cape Regiment was
constantly employed in scouring the bush, at the same time numerous
reinforcements of armed Hottentots joined from the several
institutions.

[Sidenote: 1819]

At length this border warfare began to assume a more serious
aspect, and in April, 1819, the Kafirs under the Chiefs T’Slambie
and Lynx made a combined attack on Graham’s Town, but were
repulsed; on this occasion the conduct of the Cape Regiment was
conspicuous, and called forth the approbation of Lieutenant-Colonel
Willshire, commanding the troops[3].

It was found necessary to pursue these lawless invaders into their
own country, and the Cape Regiment, consisting of two troops of
cavalry and four companies of infantry, formed part of the force
under Colonel Willshire, which advanced into Kafirland in May, and
they remained with that force until September, when the Kafirs were
completely subdued and brought to terms.

[Sidenote: 1820]

[Sidenote: 1821]

[Sidenote: 1822]

In the year 1820, a number of settlers arrived from Great Britain,
and were located about Graham’s Town, and in the fine grass
country to the south-west of the Fish River. From this period much
improvement was produced in the character of the Colony by the
exertions and industrious habits of the new settlers.

[Sidenote: 1823]

The duties of the frontier continued, however, to require activity
and vigilance, and in 1823 the Cape Regiment was augmented to four
troops of cavalry and four companies of infantry, in order to check
the depredations of the Kafirs.

In October of this year Lieut.-Colonel Fraser died, and the
command of the regiment devolved on Major Henry Somerset.

The Regiment was actively employed in the border warfare, and on
the 4th of December it was engaged with the tribe of the Chief
Macomo, when it recaptured many thousand head of cattle, which had
been stolen from the farmers along the frontier.

[Sidenote: 1824]

[Sidenote: 1825]

[Sidenote: 1826]

[Sidenote: 1827]

In the years 1824, 1825, 1826, and 1827, the regiment was
constantly employed in repelling the inroads of the Kafirs;
numerous rencounters took place, and in that period the patroles of
the regiment recovered six thousand and twenty-nine head of cattle
belonging to the colony, which will give some idea of the nature
of this border warfare, and of the arduous duties performed by the
corps.

Some respite from these services being afforded, the corps was
reduced, in November, 1827, to three companies of mounted riflemen,
under a major commanding, and the head-quarters were removed to
Fort Beaufort.

[Sidenote: 1828]

THE CAPE MOUNTED RIFLEMEN, under the command of Captain Aitchison,
accompanied Lieutenant-Colonel Somerset[4] into Kafirland, in
July and August, 1828, to repel the attacks of a horde of savages,
who had driven the border Kafirs into the colony. Lieut.-Colonel
Somerset advanced as far as the Umtata River, and on the 28th of
August the CAPE MOUNTED RIFLEMEN were engaged with a very superior
force of the invading tribes, and after a severe action from
day-break until mid-day, the savages retreated, leaving many women
and children, and much cattle behind them.

[Sidenote: 1829]

[Sidenote: 1830]

[Sidenote: 1831]

[Sidenote: 1832]

[Sidenote: 1833]

[Sidenote: 1834]

After returning from this enterprise, the RIFLEMEN resumed their
duties along the frontier; the depredations of the Kafirs were
continued, and in the years 1828, 1829, 1830, 1831, 1832, 1833, and
1834, the patroles of the corps recaptured six thousand two hundred
and ten head of cattle, and three hundred and thirty-four horses,
which had been stolen from the colonists.

Disputes frequently arose when the military were searching for lost
property; the Kafirs denied the justice of some claims, asserted
that seizures were made without proof of guilt, and without the
tracks of the lost cattle being traced to the kraal where a demand
for cattle in lieu of those lost was enforced. These disputes led
to bloodshed, and were followed, in 1834, by a simultaneous attack
of the Kafirs upon the colony at all points. On this occasion the
CAPE CORPS had three provisional companies of mounted men attached
to it, and having taken the field, it was almost constantly
engaged in detached parties with the invaders. It penetrated into
Kafirland, and was employed in the most active and arduous services
under Lieut.-Colonel Somerset, and Major Burney, for many months.

[Sidenote: 1835]

[Sidenote: 1836]

[Sidenote: 1837]

The Kafir war was continued in 1835, and in May of that year the
head-quarters of the corps were removed to Cypher Fontein; strong
detachments being employed in the new province, and along the line
of posts. The corps was also actively employed on the frontier
during the subsequent years.

[Sidenote: 1838]

In February, 1838, some of the provisional recruits, stationed
at Fort Peddie, laid the foundation of a serious mutiny, which
was fortunately discovered by some old soldiers of the corps,
and immediately reported to Captain Murray of the Seventy-second
Highlanders, commanding the post, and the ringleaders were secured.
A party of these men having marched to Fraser’s camp, on route to
head-quarters, they fired upon their officers in the night, when
Ensign Crowe, a provisional officer, was killed. This alarming
circumstance appeared to endanger the character of the corps; but
the investigation instituted by Major-General Sir George Napier,
and the proceedings of the general court-martial on the trial of
the ringleaders, clearly proved, that no blame was to be attached
to the officers, nor to the established members of the corps: in
August, his Excellency the Governor was pleased to recommend a
permanent augmentation of three companies to the corps.

[Sidenote: 1839]

The augmentation of the corps was carried into effect in March,
1839, when the six companies of the CAPE MOUNTED RIFLEMEN were
placed under the command of Colonel Henry Somerset: their
head-quarters had been removed in the previous November, from
Cypher Fontein to Graham’s Town, from which period they have been
actively employed along the frontier, occupying seventeen posts.

[Sidenote: 1840]

In October, 1840, his Excellency Major-General Sir George Napier
inspected the corps, and afterwards, addressing the officers and
soldiers, expressed his unqualified approbation of their conduct
since he quitted the frontier in 1838, and of their efficiency in
every respect.

       *       *       *       *       *

The CAPE OF GOOD HOPE, where the services of the CAPE MOUNTED
RIFLEMEN have been of signal advantage to the settlers, forms an
interesting and important portion of the British dominions, and is
capable of becoming a particularly valuable colony. On approaching
this part of Africa, the immense mass of naked rock called Table
Mountain, rising to the height of three thousand five hundred feet,
with its summit covered with a fleecy canopy of clouds, forms a
conspicuous object; and on a plain, sloping downwards from the
mountain, stands Cape Town, the capital of the colony, which is
defended by a castle of considerable strength.

The colony is bounded on the west and south, by the Atlantic and
Southern oceans; on the east, by the Great Fish River, which
separates it from Kafirland, or Caffraria; on the north by a
vast chain of mountains which form a barrier between it and the
Bechuanas and other independent tribes that stretch into the
interior. The colony is between five and six hundred miles long,
and its breadth varies from two to three hundred miles; it contains
about one hundred and twenty thousand square miles. The leading
features consist of three successive ranges of mountains, running
parallel with each other to the southern coast of Africa. Between
the first range (called Lang Kloof, or Long Pass) and the sea,
there is a belt of land varying from twenty to sixty miles in
breadth, covered with a deep fertile soil, watered by numerous
rivulets, well clothed with grass and a beautiful variety of trees
and shrubs, and yielding an abundance of grain and pasturage.
Between this range and the second, called Zwarte Berg, or Black
Mountain, there is another belt of land of about the same average
breadth, but of greater elevation, and containing patches of
fertile land interspersed in large tracts of arid desert; on these
spots are a number of grazing farms, which produce fine horses
and horned cattle. Beyond the Black Mountain, at an interval from
eighty to a hundred miles of elevated ground of a barren character,
rises the highest range of mountains in Southern Africa, called
Nieuwveldt Gebrige, the summits of which are generally covered
with snow. In this extensive territory, forming, as it were,
a succession of terraces rising above each other, much barren
land exists, interspersed with many spots of extreme fertility,
producing, in their wild state, plants and flowers distinguished
by the elegance of their forms and colours. The colony is capable
of much improvement, and of maintaining a much larger population
than that by which it is occupied. The principal of the rural
occupants are wine-growers, corn-farmers and graziers; the first
reside in the immediate vicinity of the Cape; they produce wine
of ten or twelve different kinds, and that called Constantia,
has obtained considerable reputation; brandy also forms a staple
product among them, but both articles admit of improvement. The
corn-farmers reside, generally, a few days’ journey from the Cape,
and the fertility of the soil enables them to reap good crops of
wheat, barley, rye, maize, peas, beans, and on some occasions they
bring quantities of aloes to the Cape, for which they obtain a
good price. The graziers occupy the more remote districts of the
colony, and have large flocks of sheep, some of them remarkable for
immense tails; this breed is, however, gradually becoming extinct;
the Saxon, Merino and other fine-wool breeds having been introduced
with great advantage; the graziers have also great quantities of
horned cattle. Fruits of various kinds are produced on the west
coast of the colony in as great perfection as in any part of the
globe. The Hottentots are the chief labourers of the colony, and
are a patient submissive race; when trained as soldiers they prove
an useful and efficient class of men.

Extensive measures have been adopted to diffuse the advantages of
civilization, and the blessings of Christianity among the tribes of
this part of Africa; schools have been introduced, and missionary
stations formed, and the results have been most favourable to the
progress of humanity. In this respect the colony offers a field for
the efforts of philanthropy of a most interesting character.

The geographical position of the CAPE OF GOOD HOPE points out the
importance of this colony in a commercial and military point of
view; situate half-way between England and India, in a wholesome
climate, and producing refreshments of every description, it is
capable of becoming a particularly valuable post. In the event
of a war, the power which holds the Cape may be said to possess
the key of India. It is capable of becoming a valuable station
for naval and military establishments to give effectual security
to the Indian trade and settlements. It might, also, be rendered
particularly advantageous to the interests of the British empire
as an emporium of Eastern produce, and as furnishing articles of
export for consumption in Europe and the West Indies. The advantage
of its position, considered in connection with the intercourse of
Europe with the vast regions situate around the Indian Ocean, and
its convenient situation as a place of refreshment for vessels
navigating to and from the East Indies, are quite obvious.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: 1841]

The CAPE MOUNTED RIFLEMEN are intimately connected with the several
interesting and important points in which the Cape of Good Hope
may be viewed, in relation to the advantages accruing to Great
Britain from the possession of this colony. During the whole of
the services of the corps from 1806 to 1841 it has enjoyed, and
frequently received, the expressed approbation of the several
Commanders-in-Chief of the colony, for its conduct, discipline,
and arduous exertions for the service of the Crown. Among the
officers who have signalized themselves, the names of _Colonels_
John Graham and Henry Somerset; _Lieut.-Colonels_ Thomas Lyster and
G. Sackville Fraser; _Major_ Robert S. Aitchison, and _Captain_
William W. Harding, deserve to be particularly mentioned; also,
_Lieutenant_ and _Adjutant_ Robert Hart, who served from 1808 to
1817, when he was appointed to a responsible situation under the
Colonial Government; and _Lieutenant_ and _Adjutant_ John Blakeway,
who served from 1819 to 1827. Many of the present members of the
corps have shared in all its arduous duties for several years.

In testimony of the high sense entertained by Her Majesty Queen
Victoria of the efficient services of the CAPE MOUNTED RIFLEMEN,
Her Majesty has recently directed that a pair of Standards, or
Guidons, shall be presented to that Corps. The First, or Royal
Standard, is of crimson silk; in the centre of which are conjoined
the rose, shamrock, and thistle; in a scroll beneath is the Royal
motto, “_Dieu et mon droit_;” the whole surmounted by the imperial
crown; the White Horse on a red ground in a compartment in the
first and fourth corners, and the words “_Cape Mounted Riflemen_,”
on a green ground in the second and third corners. In the middle
of the Second, or Regimental Standard, is the title of the Corps
encircled by the national emblems of the United Kingdom; above is
the imperial crown; and in a scroll beneath the words “_Cape of
Good Hope_” in the first and fourth corners the White Horse on a
red ground, and in the second and third corners the rose, shamrock,
and thistle; the field of this Standard is green; the ground of the
four badges is crimson.

So gratifying a mark of the Sovereign’s approval cannot fail to
prove acceptable both to the officers and men of this useful and
efficient corps, and to afford an encouragement to their future
exertions and good conduct.


1841


HARRISON AND CO., PRINTERS, ST. MARTIN’S LANE.


[Illustration: CAPE MOUNTED RIFLEMEN.

ROYAL STANDARD.

REGIMENTAL GUIDON.]


FOOTNOTES:

[1] Corps employed against the Cape of Good Hope, in 1806:--

  20th Lt. Drag., (det.)
  Royal Artill., (det.)
  Royal Engin., (det.)
  24th Foot,
  38th Foot,
  59th Foot,
  71st Foot,
  72nd Foot,
  83rd Foot,
  93rd Foot,
  Staff Corps, (det.)

The loss sustained in the landing at Lospard’s Bay, and in the
action of the 8th January, was--1 Captain, (Foster,) 24th Regt.,
and 14 men killed; 36 men of the 93rd Regt., drowned by the
upsetting of a boat in attempting to land; 9 officers and 183 men
wounded; and 8 men missing.

[2] The _Kafirs_ are natives of _Caffraria_, _Caffreland_, or,
more properly, “_Kafirland_,” from the Arabic word _Kafir_, which
signifies “Unbeliever;” these people are a hardy and warlike race;
they are armed with light spears, about seven feet in length,
called _assagais_, of which each warrior carries six or eight, and
a kind of club for close fighting, called a kerrie; the former they
throw with great force and dexterity, seldom missing an object at
a less distance than sixty paces. The men are, for the most part,
tall, muscular, robust, and very active, and from the difficult,
and almost inaccessible nature of the country in which the troops
have to act against them, are far from being a despicable enemy:
they have of late years obtained guns and an abundance of horses;
they seldom make an attack in the open field, but select, with
much judgment, the most rugged and rocky ravines, and the densest
thickets, for their onset. They are patient of hunger and fatigue;
and traverse immense distances in an incredibly short space of
time, and the features of the country being favourable to their
mode of warfare, military combination is rendered extremely
difficult; the greatest caution and steadiness are, therefore,
requisite in troops employed in any operation, in order to guard
against a surprise from so wily and active a people, who are
watchful of every opportunity to pounce upon any detachment which
may appear to be unsupported, or neglectful of the necessary
precautions against surprise.

A most able and experienced officer (Colonel H. G. Smith, late of
the Rifle Brigade, and Deputy Quarter-Master-General at the Cape
of Good Hope) declared, “that to follow the enemy vigorously to
his haunts and lurking-places, requires a perfect knowledge of the
service in all its branches, and an intrepidity and recklessness of
danger, which, while they become the soldier, prove the courage of
the man.”

Although the Kafirs occupy a fertile territory, which is capable
of great improvement, yet it is found, even at the present period,
that the habits and propensities of the male population are more
suited to depredation and warfare, than to the peaceful pursuits
of agriculture, the females being employed in all the offices
of labour; their frequent incursions on the lands and property
of the settlers on the British frontier; their constant state
of preparation for aggression and acts of hostility, and the
treacherous and, in some instances, barbarous practices to which
they have recourse, prove them to be very dangerous neighbours;
and until civilization, and the principles of Christianity shall
have been diffused in that very extensive territory, it may
be apprehended that these people will continue their ravages,
particularly if the corps on the frontier should be reduced, or
should relax in their responsible duties for the protection of the
colony.

Hence the importance of an active and well-disciplined body of
troops on the frontier, in which the confidence of the Government
can be placed, and which are prepared, on every occasion, to
defend the property of the settlers, and to follow up any acts of
aggression on the part of their predatory neighbours.

[3] Now Commandant of the Garrison of Chatham.

[4] Lieut.-Colonel Somerset had been appointed Commandant of
Caffraria from 25th September, 1825, having been previously
employed as Commandant at Simon’s Town and Graham’s Town, from
June, 1821.




       *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *

  WEST STRAND, APRIL, 1842.

  NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS,

  PRINTED FOR

  JOHN W. PARKER, LONDON.


  _Nearly Ready._

  LIFE and CORRESPONDENCE of
  The Late SIR ASTLEY PASTON COOPER, Bart.;

  From Documents bequeathed by him for the purpose.

  By BRANSBY B. COOPER, Esq., F.R.S.


  _In the Press._

  THE LIFE OF ISAAC MILNER, D.D., F.R.S.,
  DEAN OF CARLISLE,

  Comprising his Correspondence with many of the leading men of his
  day, and other Writings hitherto unpublished.

  By MRS. MILNER.


  _Nearly Ready._

  THE WAR IN SYRIA.

  By SIR CHARLES NAPIER, M.P., K.C.B.

  Two Volumes, Post Octavo.


  _In the Press._

  TRAVELS AND RESEARCHES IN
  ASIA MINOR, MESOPOTAMIA, CHALDEA,
  AND ARMENIA;

  By WILLIAM FRANCIS AINSWORTH, F.G.S., F.R.G.S.,

  In charge of the Expedition sent by the Royal Geographical
  Society, and the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge, to
  the Christian Tribes in Chaldea.


  _Nearly Ready._

  RAMBLES AND RESEARCHES IN THURINGIAN
  SAXONY,

  Comprising Visits to the Courts of Gotha and Weimar; Memoirs and
  Correspondence of the Ducal Families of Saxe Gotha; with Sketches
  of Manners and Customs in Thuringia; and Specimens of the Legends
  of the Forest.

  By JOHN FREDERICK STANFORD, Esq., M.A.


  THE CIVIL HISTORY OF THE JEWS,

  From Joshua to Adrian; with Incidental Notices of Manners and Customs,
  Geography and Antiquities.

  By the Rev. O. COCKAYNE, M.A., _of King’s College, London_.
  4_s._ 6_d._


  BIBLE NARRATIVE

  Chronologically arranged, in the words of the authorized Version;
  continued by an Historical Account of the Jewish Nation;
  and forming a Consecutive History from the Creation to the
  Termination of the Jewish Polity.

  _Dedicated by permission to the Lord Bishop of Winchester._

  By Miss R. M. ZORNLIN.

  New Edition, revised, with a set of Maps. 7_s._


  PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY

  Exemplified and Illustrated by the Acts of PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANS

  By the Right Rev. RICHARD MANT, D.D.,
  _Lord Bishop of Down and Connor_.

  Octavo, 12_s._ Also, by the Same Author,
  HISTORY OF THE CHURCH OF IRELAND,

  Two large Volumes, 34_s._


  PAROCHIALIA;

  Consisting of Papers printed for the use of St. George’s, Bloomsbury,

  By THOMAS VOWLER SHORT, D.D., _Lord Bishop of Sodor and Man_.

  Foolscap Octavo, 4_s._ Also, by the Same Author,

  HISTORY OF THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND;

  Embracing Copious Histories of the Thirty-Nine Articles, the
  Translation of the Bible, and the Book of Common Prayer. Third
  Edition, 16_s._


  _In the Press._

  A TRANSLATION OF THE BOOK OF PSALMS,

  By WILLIAM FRENCH, D.D., _Master of Jesus College, Cambridge, and
  Canon of Ely_; and

  Rev. GEORGE SKINNER, M.A., _Late Fellow and Tutor of Jesus College_.
  A New Edition, Revised, with Critical and Philological Notes.


  HISTORY OF THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH,

  From the Ascension of Jesus Christ to the Conversion of Constantine.
  By the late EDWARD BURTON, D.D., _Reg. Prof. Oxon_.

  THE FOURTH EDITION. 6_s._ 6_d._


  _In the Press._

  A CYCLE OF CELESTIAL OBJECTS;

  The Result of Observations made at Bedford, arranged in a
  practical manner for the use of Naval, Military, and Private
  Observers.

  By Captain W. H. SMYTH, R.N., F.R.S., F. Astron. Soc., &c.

  Octavo, with Illustrations.


  _In the Press._

  PRACTICAL GEODESY,

  Comprising Chain Surveying, the Use of Surveying Instruments,
  together with Levelling, and Trigonometrical, Mining, and
  Maritime Surveying.

  Adapted to the use of Land-Surveyors, and for Students in Civil,
  Military, and Naval Engineering,

  By BUTLER WILLIAMS, C.E., F.G.S., _Professor of Geodesy in the
  College for Civil Engineers, London_.

  Octavo, with numerous Illustrations.


  _In the Press._

  PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY FOR FARMERS
  AND LANDOWNERS.

  By JOSHUA TRIMMER, F.G.S.

  Lately published, by the Same,

  PRACTICAL GEOLOGY AND MINERALOGY,
  AND THE CHEMISTRY OF METALS.

  With an INTRODUCTORY DISCOURSE on the Nature, Tendency, and
  Advantages of Geological Pursuits.

  Octavo, with Two Hundred Wood-Cut Illustrations. 12_s._


  BRANDE’S MANUAL OF CHEMISTRY;

  THE FIFTH EDITION, thoroughly revised and greatly enlarged, and
  containing all New Facts and Discoveries in the Science.

  Octavo, 1500 closely printed pages, with numerous Wood-Cuts. 35_s._

  also,

  A DICTIONARY OF THE MATERIA MEDICA AND PHARMACY;

  Including the Elements of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, and a
  Translation of the _London Pharmacopœia_. 15_s._

  By WILLIAM THOMAS BRANDE, F.R.S., _of Her Majesty’s Mint_;
  _Professor of Chemistry at the Royal Institution, &c._


  The SECOND VOLUME of

  THE HISTORY OF HOLLAND,

  From the beginning of the Tenth to the end of the Eighteenth Century.

  By C. M. DAVIES.

  Octavo, 12_s._ Lately published, 12_s._, Volume the First.


  SALOPIA ANTIQUA;

  An Enquiry from Personal Survey, into the Early Remains in
  Shropshire and the Welsh Borders. With a Glossary of Words used
  in Salop.

  By the REV. CHARLES HENRY HARTSHORNE, M.A., F.S.A.

  Royal Octavo, 1_l._ 4_s._ Imperial, 2_l._ 2_s._


  _In the Press._

  THE MISSION OF THE COMFORTER, AND OTHER SERMONS,

  By JULIUS CHARLES HARE, M.A., _Archdeacon of Lewes_.

  By the Same Author,

  PRIVILEGES IMPLY DUTIES,
  A CHARGE TO THE CLERGY OF THE ARCHDEACONRY OF LEWES. 3_s._

  PARISH SERMONS, Octavo, 12_s._

  THE VICTORY OF FAITH. Octavo, 10_s._ 6_d._


  THE WORKS of DOCTOR DONNE,

  Dean of St. Paul’s in the time of James I. and Charles I. With a
  Memoir. By HENRY ALFORD, M.A., late Fellow of Trin. Col., Camb.
  Six Volumes, Octavo, with a fine Portrait. 3_l._ 12_s._


  THE SCRIPTURAL CHARACTER OF THE ENGLISH CHURCH.

  By the Rev. D. COLERIDGE, M.A.

  Octavo, 12_s._ 6_d._

  The series of Sermons, bearing the above title, were written
  exclusively for perusal, and are arranged as a connected whole.
  The Author has adopted this form to avail himself of the
  devotional frame of mind, presupposed on the part of the reader,
  in this species of composition; but he has not deemed it as
  necessary to preserve with strictness the conventional style of
  the pulpit, for which these discourses were never intended: they
  may, consequently, be taken as a series of Essays, or as the
  successive chapters of a general work.


  _In the Press._

  AN INDEX TO BUTLER’S ANALOGY,

  Prepared by Dr. BENTHAM, Reg. Prof. of Divinity at Oxford,
  corrected by Bishop BUTLER, and now adapted to the early and the
  Oxford editions

  By Rev. T. BARTLETT, M.A., Author of the _Life of Bishop Butler_.


  _In the Press._

  A HISTORY OF CHRISTIANITY,

  From the Birth of Christ to the Destruction of the Western
  Empire; including an Account of the Rise and Progress of the
  early Christian Churches, and the Causes that led to their
  Corruption.

  By WILLIAM COOKE TAYLOR, Esq., LL.D.

  Under the superintendence of several distinguished Church of
  England Divines.


  _In the Press._

  THE PUBLIC ECONOMY OF ATHENS,

  By AUGUSTUS BŒCKH, _Professor in the University of Berlin_.

  Translated from the German by G. CORNEWALL LEWIS, Esq., A.M.,
  late Student of Christ Church, one of the Translators of MULLER’S
  _Dorians_.

  New Edition, Revised. One Volume, Octavo.


  THE SPEECHES OF DEMOSTHENES,

  Against Aphobus and Onetor; translated, with Notes explanatory of
  the Athenian Laws and Institutions,

  By CHARLES RANN KENNEDY, M.A., _Fellow of Trin. Coll. Camb._ 9_s._


  ΡΙΝΔΑΡΟΨ ΤΑ ΣΩΖΟΜΕΝΑ.

  PINDAR’S EPINICIAN ODES, AND THE FRAGMENTS OF HIS LOST COMPOSITIONS,

  Revised and explained. With Copious Notes and Indices,
  By Rev. JOHN WM. DONALDSON, M.A., _Head Master of the Bury School_.

  Octavo, 16_s._ Also, lately published, by the Same,

  THE NEW CRATYLUS;

  Or, Contributions towards a more accurate Knowledge of the Greek
  Language. Octavo. 17_s._


  ARUNDINES CAMI,

  Sive Musarum Cantabrigiensium Lusus Canori, collegit atque edidit

  HENRICUS DRURY, M.A.

  Ornamentally printed, in Octavo, 12_s._


  THE CAMBRIDGE PORTFOLIO;

  Papers illustrative of the Scholastic and Social State,
  the History, Antiquities and Literature of the University.
  Contributed by Members.

  Edited by the Rev. J. J. SMITH, M.A., _Fellow and Tutor of
  Caius Coll._

  Two handsome Volumes, Royal Quarto, with numerous Illustrations,
  4_l._ 4_s._


  THE HANDMAID,

  Or, the Pursuits of Literature and Philosophy, considered as
  subservient to the Interests of Morality and Religion.

  By the Rev. JOHN DAVIES, B.D., _Rector of Gateshead, and_ Author
  of _An Estimate of the Human Mind_. 4_s._


  GEMS OF SACRED LITERATURE;

  A Series of beautiful Pieces, from the works of eminent Writers,
  commencing at an early period, and brought down to the present
  time.

  Two handsome Volumes. 8_s._; and uniformly, Two Vols. 8_s._


  GEMS OF SACRED POETRY;

  Choice Portions of the Works of celebrated Poets; exhibiting a
  connected view of the Character and Progress of English Sacred
  Poetry.


  _In the Press._

  ODES AND SONNETS, WITH OTHER POEMS,

  In Scotch, as well as in English.

  By C. LESINGHAM SMITH, M.A., _Rector of Little Canfield_.


  NATIONAL PROVERBS

  IN THE PRINCIPAL LANGUAGES OF EUROPE.

  Printed Line for Line in English, French, Italian, Spanish,
  and German.

  By CAROLINE WARD.

  3_s._ 6_d._


  THE LITTLE BRACKEN BURNERS, a Tale; and

  LITTLE MARY’S FOUR SATURDAYS.

  By LADY CALLCOTT.

  Foolscap Octavo, 3_s._


  WOMAN’S MISSION.

  “If Women could once be made to understand their real mission in
  this world and to feel their own importance and responsibility, a
  surprising change must immediately take place in society, giving
  it a higher tone and purer spirit.”

  The Tenth Edition. 3_s._ 6_d._


  WOMAN’S RIGHTS AND DUTIES,

  considered with reference to

  THEIR EFFECTS ON SOCIETY AND ON HER OWN CONDITION.

  BY A WOMAN.

  In any attempt to influence the opinions and practice of others,
  it is expedient to prove the importance of them to society; to
  exhibit on a great scale the effects of exerting bad habits,
  prejudices, and ignorance; and to trace their connexion with the
  social disorders which spring from them at last: those disorders,
  at this moment, are unhappily in great activity.--_Preface._

  Two Volumes, Post Octavo. 14_s._


  AN INTRODUCTION to the STUDY of CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY.

  By PROFESSOR DANIELL, F.R.S., of King’s College, London, and
  the East India College, Addiscombe.

  Octavo, with numerous Illustrations. 16_s._


  POPULAR PHYSIOLOGY;

  Familiar Explanations of interesting Facts connected with the
  Structure and Functions of Animals, and particularly of Man.

  By the late Dr. PERCIVAL B. LORD, of the Hon. E. I. C. Service.

  Many Engravings. Second Edition, revised. 7_s._ 6_d._


  _Preparing for the Press._

  THE PHYSIOLOGICAL ANATOMY, AND PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN.

  By R. B. TODD, M.D., F.R.S., and W. BOWMAN, F.R.S., of _King’s
  College, London_.

  With numerous Original Illustrations.


  _In the Press._

  ESSAYS ON NERVOUS DISEASES.

  By R. B. TODD, M.D., F.R.S., _Physician to King’s College
  Hospital, and Professor of Physiology in King’s College, London_.


  _In the Press._

  THE NERVOUS SYSTEM, AND ITS FUNCTIONS.

  CONTENTS.

  CHAP. I.--Laws of the Nervous System relating to Sensation and
  Voluntary Motion.

  CHAP. II.--Application of the preceding Laws to explain
  Pathological Phenomena.

  CHAP. III.--Influence of the Nervous System on the merely
  Corporeal Functions.

  CHAP. IV.--Relation of the Brain to the Intellectual Faculties
  and Active Principles of our Nature.

  CHAP. V.--The Interpretation of Sensations, and of the Primary
  Mental Impulses.

  By HERBERT MAYO, F.R.S.,

  _Senior Surgeon of Middlesex Hospital, formerly one of the
  Professors of Anatomy and Surgery to the Royal College of
  Surgeons_.


  Lately published, by the Same, Second Edition, 8_s._ 6_d._,

  THE PHILOSOPHY OF LIVING.

  DIVERSITIES OF CONSTITUTION. OF DIGESTION. OF EXERCISE. PHYSICAL
  EDUCATION OF GIRLS; SPINAL CURVATURE. OF SLEEP. OF BATHING. OF
  CLOTHING. OF AIR AND CLIMATE. HEALTH OF MIND; SELF-CONTROL;
  MENTAL CULTURE.


  also, New Edition, 8_s._ 6_d._

  MANAGEMENT OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION IN HEALTH AND DISEASE.

  Rules of Diet for different Constitutions.--Treatment of
  Indigestion; of Looseness; of Costiveness.--Local Diseases of the
  Lower Bowel, and their Treatment.


  A PRACTICAL ARABIC GRAMMAR.

  By DUNCAN STEWART.

  Octavo, 16_s._


  LECTURES IN DIVINITY;

  Delivered in the University of Cambridge, by JOHN HEY, D.D., as
  Norrissian Professor, from 1780 to 1795.

  A New Edition, Revised, in Two Large Volumes, Octavo, 30_s._


  A MANUAL OF CHRISTIAN ANTIQUITIES;

  An Account of the Constitution, Ministers, Worship, Discipline,
  and Customs of the Early Church: with a complete Analysis of the
  Works of the Antenicene Fathers.

  By the Rev. J. E. RIDDLE, M.A., Author of the _Latin-English
  Dictionary_.

  Octavo, 18_s._


  THE CHURCHMAN’S GUIDE;

  A Copious Index of Sermons and other Works, by eminent Church of
  England Divines; arranged according to their subjects.

  By JOHN FORSTER, M.A., _Incumbent of the Royal Chapel in the
  Savoy, London_. Octavo. 7_s._

  I would have young clergymen make very great use of the works
  of able Divines; not inconsiderately and servilely transcribe
  them,--but modify, digest, contract, amplify, vary, adapt them to
  the purpose,--improve if possible what they may find in them: for
  then it will fairly become their own, and mix naturally with what
  proceeds altogether from themselves.--_Secker._


  GARRICK’S INSTRUCTIONS FOR READING THE LITURGY;

  With Notes, and a DISCOURSE on PUBLIC READING,

  By RICHARD CULL, _Tutor in Elocution_.

  Octavo. 5_s._ 6_d._


  COMMENTS, EXPLANATORY and PRACTICAL, UPON THE EPISTLES

  For the Sundays, Fasts, and Holidays throughout the Year;

  _FOR THE USE OF FAMILIES_.

  By the Rev. J. F. HONE, M.A., Vicar of Tirley, Gloucester. 6_s._


  LECTURES ON THE LITURGY,

  Addressed to his Pupils by the Rev. JOHN BENTALL, M.A.,

  _One of the Ushers of Westminster School_.

  Octavo, 5_s._ 6_d._


  UNDER THE SUPERINTENDENCE OF THE

  Royal Society of Literature.


  _Now ready, Octavo_, 12_s._

  The First of a Series of Volumes, intended to comprise, under the
  title of

  BIOGRAPHIA BRITANNICA LITERARIA,

  A Literary History of the United Kingdom,

  ARRANGED IN CHRONOLOGICAL ORDER, AND COMMENCING WITH THE

  ANGLO-SAXON PERIOD.


  It is expected that the Second Volume will contain the
  ANGLO-NORMAN WRITERS, and that a Third may carry the Work
  through the two succeeding centuries, as far as the invention of
  Printing. From this epoch the Work will proceed by successive
  periods to the present time; and will thus constitute a complete
  Biographical Record of English Literature, free from the
  inconveniences of the alphabetical order, the only advantage of
  which will at the same time be secured by a carefully-compiled
  Index.

  The portion of the Work which relates to each period, will be
  complete in itself.


  _Lately Published, Octavo_, 2_s._ 6_d._

  AN ESSAY ON THE STATE OF LITERATURE AND LEARNING UNDER THE
  ANGLO-SAXONS,

  By THOMAS WRIGHT, Esq., M.A., F.R.S.,

  _Of Trinity College, Cambridge_.


  THE JOURNAL

  OF THE

  Statistical Society of London.

  Published Quarterly, price 2_s._ 6_d._

  Volumes I. II. III. and IV. may be had complete, price 10_s._
  6_d._ each, and the Quarterly Parts are published on the first of
  January, April, July, and October, in each year.


  MATHEMATICAL TRACTS.

  I. Lunar and Planetary Theories. II. Figure of the Earth.
  III. Precession and Nutation. IV. Calculus of Variations.
  V. Undulatory Theory of Optics, and Theory of Polarization.

  Designed for the Use of Students in the Universities.

  By GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY, M.A., F.R.S., _Astronomer Royal_.

  Octavo, Third Edition, corrected. 15_s._


  EXAMPLES OF THE PROCESSES OF THE DIFFERENTIAL AND INTEGRAL
  CALCULUS.

  Collected by D. F. GREGORY, M.A., _Fellow of Trinity College,
  Cambridge_.

  Octavo, with Plates, 18_s._


  PRINCIPLES OF MECHANISM.

  Designed for the use of Students of the Universities, and for
  Students of Engineering generally.

  By R. WILLIS, M.A., F.R.S., _Jacksonian Professor of Natural and
  Experimental Philosophy in the University of Cambridge_.

  With 250 Wood-Cuts. Octavo, 15_s._ Also, by the Same,

  THE ARCHITECTURE OF THE MIDDLE AGES.

  Octavo, with Twenty Plates, 10_s._ 6_d._


  THE UNDULATORY THEORY, AS APPLIED TO THE DISPERSION OF LIGHT.

  By the Rev. BADEN POWELL, M.A., F.R.S., F.R.A.S., F.G.S.,
  _Savilian Professor in the University of Oxford_.

  Octavo, 9_s._, with a Coloured Chart of the Prismatic Spectra.


  On the DIFFERENTIAL and INTEGRAL CALCULUS.

  THIRD EDITION, enlarged. 12_s._ 6_d._

  II.

  ELEMENTS OF DESCRIPTIVE GEOMETRY.

  Chiefly intended for Students in Engineering. With 80 Illustrations.
  6_s._ 6_d._

  III.

  THE ELEMENTS OF ALGEBRA.

  Chiefly intended for Schools and the Junior Classes in Colleges.
  6_s._ 6_d._

  By the Rev. T. G. HALL, M.A.,
  _Professor of Mathematics in King’s College, London_.


  WORKS BY THE REV.

  WILLIAM WHEWELL, B.D., F.R.S.,

  MASTER OF TRINITY COLLEGE;
  PROFESSOR OF MORAL PHILOSOPHY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE.


  ARCHITECTURAL NOTES ON GERMAN CHURCHES,
  With Notes of a Tour in Normandy and Picardy.
  A THIRD EDITION, with Additions. _In the Press._

  II.

  THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE INDUCTIVE SCIENCES, FOUNDED UPON THEIR
  HISTORY.

  The Philosophy of Pure Mathematics; the Philosophy of the
  Mechanical Sciences; of Physics; of Chemistry; of Mineralogy; of
  Botany; of Zoology; and the Logic of Induction.

  Two Volumes, Octavo. 30_s._

  III.

  A HISTORY OF THE INDUCTIVE SCIENCES, FROM THE EARLIEST TIMES TO
  THE PRESENT.

  Ancient Astronomy. Mechanics. Hydrostatics. Optics, and
  Harmonics. Modern Astronomy. Mechanics. Hydrostatics. Optics.
  Acoustics. Heat. Electricity. Magnetism. Galvanism. Chemistry.
  Electro-Chemistry. Mineralogy. Botany. Animal Physiology.
  Zoology. Geology.

  Three Volumes, Octavo, 2_l._ 2_s._

  IV.

  ON THE PRINCIPLES OF ENGLISH UNIVERSITY EDUCATION.

  Octavo. 5_s._

  V.

  THE MECHANICAL EUCLID;

  Containing the Propositions necessary for a Degree at Cambridge.
  5_s._ 6_d._

  VI.

  THE MECHANICS OF ENGINEERING;

  For use in Universities and Colleges of Engineers.

  Octavo, with Illustrations. 9_s._

  VII.

  THE DOCTRINE OF LIMITS,

  With Applications; _viz._, Conic Sections, the first three
  Sections of Newton, the Differential Calculus.

  Octavo, with Illustrations. 9_s._

  VIII.

  ON THE FOUNDATIONS OF MORALS;

  Four Sermons preached before the University of Cambridge.

  Octavo. 3_s._ 6_d._


  LIFE AND SERVICES OF GENERAL LORD HARRIS, G.C.B.

  By the Right Hon. S. R. LUSHINGTON, late Governor of Madras

  Octavo, with Portrait, &c. 13_s._


  BISHOP BUTLER.

  Memoirs of the Life and Writings of the Author of _The Analogy_.

  By THOMAS BARTLETT, M.A.,

  Octavo with Portrait. 12_s._


  THE LIFE OF ARCHBISHOP SANCROFT,

  to which are added, Three Sermons, and the Tract on _Modern Policy_.

  By GEORGE D’OYLY, D.D., F.R.S., Rector of Lambeth.

  _New Edition, Revised. Octavo._ 9_s._


  Original Family Sermons,

  CONTRIBUTED BY UPWARDS OF

  ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY COTEMPORARY DIVINES OF THE ESTABLISHED CHURCH.

  AND PUBLISHED UNDER THE DIRECTION OF

  THE COMMITTEE OF GENERAL LITERATURE AND EDUCATION OF THE SOCIETY
  FOR PROMOTING CHRISTIAN KNOWLEDGE.

  The work is complete in Five Volumes, either of which may be had
  separately at 6_s._ 6_d._ each, bound in cloth and lettered. With
  the Fifth Volume are given separate Indices of the Authors, and
  of their subjects.


  Two handsome Folio Volumes, Half-bound in Turkey Morocco, Price
  Two Guineas or in Twenty-four Parts, at Eighteen-pence, each.

  Sacred Minstrelsy;

  A COLLECTION OF

  SACRED MUSIC FROM THE FINEST WORKS OF THE GREAT MASTERS, BRITISH
  AND FOREIGN.

  _ARRANGED AS SOLOS, AND CONCERTED PIECES, FOR PRIVATE PERFORMANCE,
  WITH ACCOMPANIMENTS FOR THE PIANO-FORTE._

  The exclusive nature of nearly all existing collections of Sacred
  Music, and the high price at which novelties are in general
  produced, renders this work particularly desirable. Many fine
  productions, at present comparatively unknown, would be hailed
  with delight as additions to the stores of Sacred Harmony, could
  they be procured in a familiar form and on reasonable terms.

  The design of the present work, therefore, is to place within
  the reach of families, and of persons unaccustomed to playing
  from score, really good practical music; classical, yet not
  laboriously and uselessly learned; to introduce into the
  drawing-room many beautiful compositions of enduring value,
  which, if not altogether unknown, have rarely been heard except
  at Concerts or Oratorios; and thus to attract towards Sacred
  Music a portion of that patronage which is bestowed, in so
  disproportionate a degree, upon works of a secular kind.

  Prefixed to each Volume are Biographical Sketches of the Authors
  whose compositions it contains, together with Historical and
  Critical Accounts of the Works upon which their respective
  reputations are principally founded.


  Churchmen and Church Literature of England;

  AS EXHIBITED IN THE

  LIVES AND WRITINGS OF EMINENT DIVINES, FROM THE PERIOD OF THE
  REFORMATION;

  WITH CONNECTING HISTORIES OF THE TIMES IN WHICH THEY LIVED.

  By the REV. RICHARD CATTERMOLE, B.D.

  The design of this work is, to present, on a scale and in a
  manner adapted to general appreciation, an estimate of the
  literary character and monuments of our venerable Church. The
  moral excellences, the religious principles, and the learned
  labours of her more distinguished Divines, as exhibited in their
  lives, and exemplified by entire treatises, or considerable
  portions, selected from their writings, will constitute the chief
  materials of the design; but connected and bound together as
  a continuous work, by a broad view of English Church History.
  Thus the general, and especially the youthful reader will be
  furnished, in these volumes, with a knowledge, sufficient for his
  purpose, of what as Englishmen we owe to the National Church,
  and to those gifted and energetic minds who have zealously
  laboured in her service for the honour of God and the good of
  mankind; while others, who, from professional duty, or a serious
  literary taste, intend to devote themselves systematically to
  the study of that unequalled treasure of thought, erudition,
  and eloquence,--the Theological Literature of England,--will
  be prepared by the previous perusal of these volumes for more
  profound and extensive research.


  _In the Press._

  Recreation in the Sciences,

  A SERIES OF POPULAR WORKS.

  The tendency of which is to show how much of _recreation_,
  combined with sound knowledge, may be found in natural objects.

  The traveller and the historian, the artist and the artisan,
  offer their various works and productions for the study or
  recreation of young and old, but they invite attention, for
  the most part, to the imperfect works of man, and their
  productions, though valuable in themselves, possess not that
  attractive interest and unwearying amusement which is to be
  found in the contemplation of the perfect works of Nature. But
  can it be doubted that, in the beautiful and endless variety of
  Nature’s works, there exists a store of unfailing amusement and
  instruction, the pursuit of which is sure to form a profitable
  occupation for the general reader during many a leisure hour, and
  is also admirably calculated to supersede many of the recreations
  of the young, which are productive of no useful results?

  Of this Series there are already published,--

  I.

  RECREATIONS IN PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY;
  Or, THE EARTH AS IT IS.

  By Miss R. M. ZORNLIN.

  Foolscap Octavo, with numerous Cuts, Maps, &c. 6_s._

  II.

  RECREATIONS IN GEOLOGY;
  With a Glossary of Terms, and various Illustrations. By Miss
  R. M. ZORNLIN.

  New Edition. 4_s._ 6_d._

  III.

  RECREATIONS IN ASTRONOMY;
  With a Glossary, and fifty Illustrations.

  By the Rev. LEWIS TOMLINSON, M.A.

  New Edition, 4_s._ 6_d._

  IV.

  RECREATIONS IN CHEMISTRY;

  By THOMAS GRIFFITHS, _Chemical Lecturer at the Royal Institution,
  and St. Bartholomew’s Hospital_. 4_s._ 6_d._


  The following are in a forward state of Preparation.

  RECREATIONS IN MECHANICAL PHILOSOPHY;

  RECREATIONS IN BOTANY;

  RECREATIONS IN THE ELECTRICAL SCIENCES;

  &c. &c. &c.


  _Volume the First, and Parts I. to XXIV., to be completed in
  Two Volumes, at_ 1_l._ 5_s._, _or Thirty Parts, at_ 1_s._ 6_d._
  _each, in small folio, with numerous Illustrations_,

  The Bible Cyclopedia.

  A COMPREHENSIVE DIGEST OF THE CIVIL AND NATURAL HISTORY,
  GEOGRAPHY, STATISTICS, AND GENERAL LITERARY INFORMATION CONNECTED
  WITH THE SACRED WRITINGS.

  The Illustration of the Holy Scriptures must ever be an object
  of paramount importance to every devout Christian. In this work,
  the varied stores of information which have been accumulating for
  ages, relating to the civil and ecclesiastical history of ancient
  empires, and the interesting and valuable researches of modern
  travellers, particularly those relating to Egypt, are examined,
  and the results placed before the reader.

  In duly estimating the importance of critical and philological
  research, and in clearing away some of the obscurities of the
  Scriptures, the Editor considers the Bible, in its structure,
  spirit, and character, to be essentially an Eastern book. The
  natural phenomena, and moral condition of the East, should
  therefore be made largely tributary to its elucidation. For this
  important purpose, the Editor draws largely from those rich and
  abundant stores unfolded by the spirit of modern enterprise.

  The Editor most anxiously avoids that spirit of error which
  has, unhappily, too much prevailed of late on the Continent,
  and which, by arrogating to itself the claims of superior
  sagacity and learning, has sought to reduce everything in the
  Sacred Volume to the level of its own limited views and narrow
  conceptions, denying or explaining away the miracles, and seeking
  thereby to lower our reverence for the word of God, and for
  divine things in general. Such views and principles, usually
  classed under the term _Neology_, receive no countenance in
  the pages of this work. The BIBLE is, throughout, exhibited as
  Scripture given by inspiration of God, and not as mere human
  composition.

  Scripture Biography is treated of in a brief and concise manner,
  except when difficulties occur which require to be cleared up;
  and the topographical descriptions of remarkable places of
  Scripture form a marked feature in the BIBLE CYCLOPÆDIA.

  Numerous Wood-Cuts are given of Coins, Medals, Gems, remarkable
  Places, and other subjects capable of legitimate illustration,
  from the best and most recent sources of information.


  _Uniformly with the above, price_ 7_s._ 6_d._, _coloured, and
  bound in cloth_,

  Bible Maps;

  A SERIES OF NEW AND ACCURATE MAPS, CONSTRUCTED ON THE BEST
  AUTHORITIES, AND VERIFIED BY COLLATION WITH THE DISCOVERIES OF
  MODERN TRAVELLERS:

  FORMING A COMPLETE

  HISTORICAL AND DESCRIPTIVE ATLAS OF SCRIPTURE GEOGRAPHY.

  By WILLIAM HUGHES, F.R.G.S.

  The numerous attempts successively made to illustrate the
  geography of the Bible have been, in too many instances, based
  upon mere _conjectures_, sometimes supported only by vague
  etymological analogies drawn from the writings of Greek and Roman
  antiquity, and often only showing how little the framers of
  them really _knew_ of Palestine, but which have, in almost all
  cases, been disproved by the appliance of modern observation.
  This would have been of comparatively little importance if, as
  new facts were acquired, they had been constantly made use of,
  and applied as tests of the worth of preconceived hypotheses.
  But it has unfortunately happened that, either from the
  ignorance or carelessness of the greater number of the compilers
  of _Scripture Atlases_, a large amount of real and available
  information has either not yet been applied to the illustration
  of the Geography of the Sacred Volume, or else it has been
  mixed up with long-received conjectures, in such a manner as to
  make the ascertained _truths_ subservient to the hypotheses,
  instead of confirming or rejecting the latter, according as it
  corresponded or not with the former. The result has, of course,
  been to confuse rather than elucidate the subject; and the great
  majority of the Maps professing to illustrate the Bible, mostly
  copied from others of a similar description, and inheriting in
  succession the absurdities and puerile conjectures of former
  times, present, accordingly, a mass of confusion, in which it is
  impossible for the inexperienced student to separate the true
  from the false, or the known from the conjectural.


  Published by Authority,


  MINUTES OF THE COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON EDUCATION,

  For the Years 1840-1. Octavo, 3_s._ 6_d._, also,

  THE MINUTES FOR THE YEARS 1839-40. 3_s._ 6_d._


  WILHEM’S METHOD OF TEACHING SINGING,

  ADAPTED TO ENGLISH USE UNDER THE SANCTION OF THE

  _COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL ON EDUCATION_,

  By JOHN HULLAH.


  The MATERIALS for TEACHING SINGING on the above Method are
  Published in the following forms:

  WILHEM’S METHOD OF TEACHING SINGING,

  New Edition. Parts I. and II. 2_s._ 6_d._ each.; or the Two Parts
  bound together in cloth, 5_s._

  These two Parts contain the Theory and Practice of the First
  Course, and are adapted both for Teachers and Pupils.

  II.

  THE EXERCISES AND FIGURES for the Use of Pupils.

  Three Books, 6_d._ each.

  III.

  HULLAH’S LARGE SHEETS,

  Containing the EXERCISES and FIGURES, in bold Characters on Sheets
  Three feet Six inches long.

  Nos. I. to X.; XI. to XX.; XXI. to XXX.; XXXI. to XL.; and XLI.
  to L.; are ready, in parcels of ten Numbers each. Price 7_s._
  6_d._ per parcel.

  These Sheets, though intended chiefly for the use of Schools,
  will also be found useful in the Instruction of Classes provided
  with Books, as saving the Teacher the time and labour required
  for the use of the Black Board. The succeeding Numbers are in the
  Press.

  IV.

  SINGING TABLETS FOR ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.

  Price, Sheets, 10_s._; Mounted on Millboard, 25_s._; in Box,
  complete, 30_s._

  These Tablets contain the Theory and Practice of the First Course,
  and are adapted chiefly for Schools conducted on the Monitorial
  System.


  _MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES FOR SINGING CLASSES._


  A NEW TUNING FORK, now first accurately adjusted, by a Scientific
  Process, to 256 Vibrations per Second.

  This Tuning Fork is stamped with the name of the Publisher, and
  orders should direct its being procured at 445, West Strand. It
  may be ordered through the Booksellers, &c.

  PORTABLE STANDS for Hullah’s Large Sheets. 7_s._ 6_d._ each.

  These Stands are so constructed as to exhibit in succession all
  the Large Sheets required in a Lecture or a Class Lesson. For
  the sake of portability the Stand is made to take to pieces, and
  to pack up in a simple form, but it is put together for use with
  great facility.

  PORTFOLIOS for Hullah’s Large Sheets, to hold the complete set of
  100. 25_s._ each.

  A MUSIC COPY BOOK. 1_s._


  LONDON: JOHN W. PARKER, PUBLISHER, WEST STRAND.




  TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE

  Obvious typographical errors and punctuation errors have been
  corrected after careful comparison with other occurrences within
  the text and consultation of external sources.

  Some hyphens in words have been silently removed, some added,
  when a predominant preference was found in the original book.

  Except for those changes noted below, all misspellings in the text,
  and inconsistent or archaic usage, have been retained.

  Publisher Catalog:
  Page C5: ‘the supreintendence of’ replaced by ‘the superintendence of’.
  Page C14: ‘of the recreatious’ replaced by ‘of the recreations’.
  Page C15: ‘he importance of’ replaced by ‘the importance of’.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HISTORY OF THE CAPE MOUNTED RIFLES
WITH A BRIEF ACCOUNT OF THE COLONY OF THE CAPE OF GOOD HOPE ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
